MAT SCALES: Hey, everyone.
I'm back again to talk
about building my camera.
This time I want to talk
about actually taking
control of the device camera
and taking pictures with it.
I already talked about how
you got hold of an image
when you don't have
access to the camera.
So here we don't have
to worry quite so much
about compatibility
except to make sure
that we use feature detection
to disable this feature where
it isn't available.
As it happens, though,
the release of Safari 11,
the latest stable version
of all the major browsers,
now actually supports
the getUserMedia API,
which is the core
feature that we need.
So let's have a look at
how we handle all of this.
As I said, one of the
first things we need to do
is feature detection.
So I have a constants
file here, which
just has a couple of things.
So I'm checking for the image
capture object in the window.
I'm checking for the media
devices object in Navigator.
We'll use those to determine
that these two APIs actually
exist.
So I've extracted all of the
camera related code for my app
into this helper class that
I've just called Camera Helper.
This is going to handle all of
the interaction with the device
so that the UI layer can just
concentrate on how to present
this information to the user.
So one of the first
things we need to do
is if the feature is
available in the browser,
it doesn't actually
mean we've got a camera.
So we need a way to let
the UI layer determine
what cameras are available.
So that's what this method is
for, the getCameras method.
If the media device's
API is available,
then we'll use that, the
navigator media device's
enumerate devices method to
get hold of all of the media
devices that are attached to
our phone or laptop or whatever.
But this will include video
cameras as well as microphones.
So we then filter this
to get only devices that
are video input devices.
And then we return that.
And if this API isn't
available, then getCameras
will just return an empty array.
Once the UI knows that
there is a camera available,
it can call us to say that
it wants to start a stream
and it can pass in a device ID.
Now this device ID comes
from the objects that
were returned from
getCameras, and this
allows the UI to say
that it specifically
wants one of those cameras.
So this allows for UI
features like switching
between the front-facing
and rear-facing cameras,
or just to pick a known camera
from a drop-down, for example.
Then when we actually want to
get the data from the camera,
we need to use the navigator dot
mediaDevices dot getUserMedia
call to get a stream.
Now there's a bit
of terminology here,
which is a little bit confusing.
There's a few overloaded words.
So start off with
a stream is just
a bunch of media information.
And it will consist of
tracks, one or more tracks.
And those tracks could
be video or audio.
So in theory, a stream can
have multiple video fee--
multiple video tracks and
multiple audio tracks.
In this case, we're
expecting to get just video.
And I'll say why in a moment.
And we should just have one.
So we have stream,
and we have a track.
And the track is the
first video track.
Now for each of these
streams and tracks,
there are things called
constraints, settings,
and capabilities.
A stream has both
constraints and capabilities.
The browser has capabilities.
And a track has capabilities,
constraints, and settings.
And then when we want to
actually take a photo,
if we're using the
Image Capture API,
that, again, takes
another settings object.
So I apologize if you get
confused with constraints
and capabilities and settings.
There are several
things called that.
That's just the way the API is.
So the first place that
we're going to use this
is in our actual
getUserMedia call.
We pass in constraints
for the stream.
This is our way of telling the
browser what kind of camera
we want.
So most of our constraints
are defined as a constant
here at the top of the file.
You can see that they--
we say that we want video.
This is why we're
not going to get
any audio because the audio
property is by default false.
So we're only saying
we want video.
And we're not setting
the device ID here,
but we set it in the function.
I'll show that in a sec.
We say that we want
the facing mode
to be either user, that
is, the camera is facing
the user-- it's a selfie
camera-- or environment-- it's
facing away from the user into
whatever you're looking at.
And we say that the width and
height should ideally be--
this is 1080p HD resolution.
Now with these
constraints, I could
have said that the facing
mode was just user.
I could've said I
only want selfie mode.
Or I could have said that I
want the width and the height
to be exactly 1080p resolution.
But if these constraints
can't be satisfied,
then you won't get
any stream at all.
So if I ran this with
exact here, or having
the just user on my laptop
here, this would actually
fail because my laptop
will only give me
720p resolution out
of camera, and it only
supports an environment camera.
I mean, technically,
it's facing the user,
but it describes it as
an environment camera.
So we're using
whatever device ID
was passed in from the UI
layer to change the constraints
for the video so that
when we call getUserMedia,
we're getting a
particular camera.
So that's the initial
constraints for getUserMedia.
We also have various settings
we can put on the stream
once it's going.
So once our stream
is going, we pull out
the first video track of that
stream and we store it away.
We can now set options, set
constraints on the track.
When we want to set
an option on a track,
we need to make sure that
it's actually supported.
So there are two things
that we need to look at.
One is at the top
of the file here,
we have this supported
constraints object,
which we're setting with
navigator dot mediaDevices dot
getSupportedConstraints,
assuming
that we support the media
device's API, that is.
This will tell us which
constraints the browser
supports.
So these are the ones that
the browser knows about.
It's things like white balance
and exposure, brightness, zoom,
focus distance,
things like that.
These are the things
that we can set
to change how the camera is
physically operating, you know,
what kind of image that we're
getting back from the camera.
And this is real time.
This is affecting the video feed
that is coming from the camera.
So now we know which constraints
the browser supports.
We also need to take into
account which constraints
the track that we
currently have supports,
because it might be different.
For example, on my
phone, the selfie camera
doesn't have a flash.
It doesn't support zoom
or anything like that.
Whereas the environment
camera does have a flash.
So on that one, we'll have a
different set of constraints--
sorry, a different
set of capabilities
that we can apply
constraints to.
So if we want to get the
available capabilities
for the track, that's
another API call.
If we are currently dealing with
the track, because we might not
actually have
started our stream,
and if that track supports
the getCapabilities method--
because this is a
relatively new method,
so this is a feature
detection-- if it supports
both of those things,
then we call that function
and it gives us the list of
capabilities for the track.
This is the same kind of object
as the supported capabilities
for the browser, only now
we know that, specifically,
this track also supports them.
So when we want to change a
constraint on this video feed,
we need to check that it
is a support constraint.
So we check in our
supportConstraints
that it exists and
that it is true.
We then get the capabilities
for the current track.
And if that's also true, then
we'll make a note of that.
We'll set in our
trackConstraints object that's
recording what constraints we
want that this particular value
is set to this name.
And then we'll apply all the
constraints that we've got.
The constraints object is
just a little bit weird.
Instead of being an
object with keys,
it's an object with a single
key, which is called Advanced,
and that's an array.
And inside that you
put in more objects.
So because you can't
directly map things
because you could
have multiple entries
for the same constraint,
I would just have to--
I'm just building
this array here.
And then we actually apply
those constraints to the track.
With newer browsers,
we can actually
use an API called the
Image Capture API.
And this lets us direct
the control actually taking
a photo.
But we still need to
support older browsers that
don't support this.
So there is a fallback way,
which involves using a canvas.
So if we support image
capture, we're doing one thing,
but let's just quickly have
a look at the fallback case.
So we create a canvas, and
we set its width to the same
as the video that we're getting.
And then we draw the
video into the canvas.
So that would just draw the
current frame into the canvas.
And then you can use the helper
that I talked about last time
to turn that canvas into
a blob, which we can then
store or manipulate or
whatever else we want to do.
One of the problems with
this is that getUserMedia
itself for the
video streams only
supports up to HD resolution.
And obviously, if you have
a modern mobile phone,
your phone is probably much
better than a 4K resolution
when it actually takes photos.
So this is why we want to
use the Image Capture API.
So if the Image Capture
API is supported,
then we take that
stream and we're
going to get hold of
its track, and we're
going to create
this ImageCapture
object for that track.
And then the simple
thing that we can do
is we can say the
capture.takePhoto.
That will return us a
photo from the camera.
And this, because
we're specifically
telling it to take a photo,
we use the full resolution
of the camera to
get us that photo.
So this is already
a huge improvement.
However, if we have
a modern browser that
allows us to get the
capabilities of the camera,
we can also set some
additional features.
So here you see I'm checking
this photoCapabilities object.
And I skipped over it initially,
but in the start stream,
if image capture is supported,
I set the photoCapabilities
object to be the return
result of getPhotoCapabilities
on an Image Capture
API for the track.
Now these photo
capabilities, it's
a much smaller list of things.
It's just something
called fill light mode
it's red eye reduction and then
image heighten and image width.
In my app, I don't actually
want to change the image height
and image width.
I want the full resolution.
But the other two are
pretty interesting.
So if this track
supports fill light mode,
that's firing the flash.
So the options for
a fill light mode
when we actually take a photo,
assuming it's supported,
will be either auto, off, or on.
So on meaning always
fire the flash,
auto meaning depending on
the light levels, whatever
the camera would normally do.
Similarly, for
red eye reduction.
So the way we do that
is that in TakePhoto,
if we have this
photoCapabilities object
and the fill light mode
includes whatever we're trying
and set the flash to,
then set the settings fill
light mode to be that.
And similarly, if the
photoCapabilities red eye
reduction is
controllable, then we'll
allow whatever our red
eye reduction setting
is to be set there.
And red eye reduction and flash
are just public properties
on the camera helper,
so that they can be
set from the UX layer whenever.
So then we can pass that
settings object to TakePhoto,
and it will fire the flash if
we arrest it to, use the red eye
reduction.
It will do whatever we want.
So that's settings,
capabilities,
and constraints for streams,
tracks, and the taking a photo.
Hopefully, that's all clear now.
Yeah, there we go.
Proper access to all of
the features of the camera.
Thanks very much for watching.
And until next
time, happy coding.
Thanks for watching.
If you'd like to see
more of our videos,
click here, and see you again.
Cheers.